README.md, before:

# redhat-dotnet-container

This repo contains prototypes for improving the UX when using Red Hat .NET container images with the .NET SDK.

## RedHat.Container package

Adding this NuGet package makes the SDK use Red Hat .NET base images instead of Microsoft .NET base images. To opt-out of this behavior, you can set `UseRedHatDotnetImage` to `false`.
The image locations can be overridden by setting `RedHatAspNet60RuntimeImage`, `RedHatAspNet70RuntimeImage`, ... .

When the container image is built on a Kubernetes cluster, the package defaults to use a `dotnet` ImageStream image from the internal OpenShift image registry (even when `UseRedHatDotnetImage` is `false`). To opt-out of this behavior, you can set `UseOpenShiftDotnetImage` to `false`.
By default, the package looks for the dotnet images in the build namespace. Setting `OpenShiftDotnetNamespace` allows to specify the namespace.

To facilicate publishing to the OpenShift internal image registry, when no `ContainerRegistry` is set, the image is published to the OpenShift internal image registry. By default, the build namespace is used. This can be overridden by setting `OpenShiftNamespace`. Like with the .NET SDK, the image name can be controlled by setting `ContainerRepository`.

Overview of properties:

| Property                   | Description | Default value |
|----------------------------|-------------|---------------|
| UseRedHatDotnetImage       | Use Red Hat .NET images.                   | true |
| UseOpenShiftDotnetImage    | On a cluster, use .NET imagestream images. | true |
| OpenShiftDotnetNamespace   | Internal image registry namespace for `UseOpenShiftDotnetImage` images. | _current namespace_ |
| OpenShiftNamespace         | Internal image registry namespace to push to.                           | _current namespace_ |
| RedHatAspNet60RuntimeImage | Location of the .NET 6 ASP.NET Core runtime image. | registry.access.redhat.com/ubi8/dotnet-60-runtime:latest |
| RedHatAspNet70RuntimeImage | Location of the .NET 7 ASP.NET Core runtime image. | registry.access.redhat.com/ubi8/dotnet-70-runtime:latest |
| RedHatAspNet80RuntimeImage | Location of the .NET 8 ASP.NET Core runtime image. | registry.access.redhat.com/ubi8/dotnet-80-runtime:latest |

### Adding the package to your project

You can add the latest CI package to your project using:

```
dotnet add package RedHat.Container --prerelease -s https://www.myget.org/F/tmds/api/v3/index.json
```

Commit message:

Prototype dotnet-publish-image Tekton task. (#5)
This task uses the .NET SDK to build and push the image.

README.md, after:

# redhat-dotnet-container

This repo contains prototypes for improving the UX when using Red Hat .NET container images with the .NET SDK.

## RedHat.Container NuGet package

Adding this NuGet package makes the SDK use Red Hat .NET base images instead of Microsoft .NET base images. To opt-out of this behavior, you can set `UseRedHatDotnetImage` to `false`.
The image locations can be overridden by setting `RedHatAspNet60RuntimeImage`, `RedHatAspNet70RuntimeImage`, ... .

When the container image is built on a Kubernetes cluster, the package defaults to use a `dotnet` ImageStream image from the internal OpenShift image registry (even when `UseRedHatDotnetImage` is `false`). To opt-out of this behavior, you can set `UseOpenShiftDotnetImage` to `false`.
By default, the package looks for the dotnet images in the build namespace. Setting `OpenShiftDotnetNamespace` allows to specify the namespace.

To facilicate publishing to the OpenShift internal image registry, when no `ContainerRegistry` is set, the image is published to the OpenShift internal image registry. By default, the build namespace is used. This can be overridden by setting `OpenShiftNamespace`. Like with the .NET SDK, the image name can be controlled by setting `ContainerRepository`.

Overview of properties:

| Property                   | Description | Default value |
|----------------------------|-------------|---------------|
| UseRedHatDotnetImage       | Use Red Hat .NET images.                   | true |
| UseOpenShiftDotnetImage    | On a cluster, use .NET imagestream images. | true |
| OpenShiftDotnetNamespace   | Internal image registry namespace for `UseOpenShiftDotnetImage` images. | _current namespace_ |
| OpenShiftNamespace         | Internal image registry namespace to push to.                           | _current namespace_ |
| RedHatAspNet60RuntimeImage | Location of the .NET 6 ASP.NET Core runtime image. | registry.access.redhat.com/ubi8/dotnet-60-runtime:latest |
| RedHatAspNet70RuntimeImage | Location of the .NET 7 ASP.NET Core runtime image. | registry.access.redhat.com/ubi8/dotnet-70-runtime:latest |
| RedHatAspNet80RuntimeImage | Location of the .NET 8 ASP.NET Core runtime image. | registry.access.redhat.com/ubi8/dotnet-80-runtime:latest |

### Adding the package to your project

You can add the latest CI package to your project using:

```
dotnet add package RedHat.Container --prerelease -s https://www.myget.org/F/tmds/api/v3/index.json
```

## dotnet-publish-image Tekton task

The `dotnet-publish-image` Tekton task publishes a container image from a .NET project.

Task workspaces:

| Workspace | Description   |
|-----------|---------------|
| source    | Source code.  |

Overview of parameters:

| Parameter         | Description | Default value |
|-------------------|-------------|---------------|
| PROJECT           | Path of the .NET project file. | |
| IMAGE_NAME        | Image registry to push.<br>Name of the image repository to push. When it does not include a registry, it is pushed to the internal cluster registry. If no namespace is included, the current namespace is prepended to the name. | |
| SDK_VERSION       | Tag of .NET SDK imagestream. | latest |
| DOTNET_NAMESPACE  | Namespace of the .NET imagestreams. Set to '$(context.taskRun.namespace)' to use the pipeline namespace. | openshift |
